---
layout: post
title: Week 15

---

## Overview
End-of-semester team presentations. Also, contributions almost done!

<!--more-->
This post is admittedly quite late, and so I'm going to discuss things that technically happened after Week 15 ended, since it's the last post of the semester.

Team presentations were quite fun to watch. I feel a little silly for not trying to find some translation work when I found I wasn't making much headway with code contributions. I think what kept me from trying that route that was that I really felt very confident that I was capable of resolving the open issues I requested, and until the end, I always thought there was a chance to get *something* merged. Oh, well. I didn't expect to spend quite so much time complaining about the maintainers in our presentation. Lots of pent up frustration there, I guess.

I did finish and push the expanded features to the repo. Now, instead of a simple editing icon that leads to the editing page, there is a popup menu with an editing button where appropriate - it only displays on some gallery screens, leaving an empty menu where it doesn't belong. It should be fairly easy to add a report and license button to it, but I'm not sure whether the maintainers want me to add that in this particular pull request, so I've asked that question in the comment I left explaining the newest changes. I think Andy is ready with a report screen if they agree to let us add that feature, or if they open a new issue requesting that feature.