---
layout: post
title: Week 6
---

## Overview
Big contributions coming soon...

<!--more-->

I BADLY want to contribute to iNaturalist. I think some combination of this being a new computer and the limitations of working with Windows made trying to set up the dev environment a winding slog, but I saw that someone else managed to set it up with Windows 11 and I'm planning to ask them for some help. I mean, if I really can't contribute to it, then I guess there's nothing for it - but wouldn't that be sad? I contribute to it all the time! That was this week's contribution, actually! I identified a white-breasted nuthatch. I haven't gone birding for a minute, so I don't have observations of my own to add.

Other small contributions I made included: asking for clarification on a year-old issue on the class website GitHub, ultimately fixing that issue (deletion of a single line), and some tweaks to a Wikipedia page. I'm probably proudest of the Wikipedia contribution because it involved the most learning of new tools and standards. That was also the most challenging part. I discarded my edits maybe 5 times because I messed up, and I'm still not sure if it was because Wikipedia's newer editor isn't quite mature yet, or if I just wasn't using it properly.

I was hoping to make some actual code contributions this week, but I got sick:'\(. It's fine, I suppose; I'm still happy to grant a new birder the joy of putting a name to an unfamiliar critter.

Besides my strong desire to contribute to iNaturalist, Open Food Facts also seems like a good project to contribute to. Its new contributor resources look incredibly thorough.